# Pre-release & post-release sentiment analysis of movies.

Sentiment analysis is the interpretation and classification of emotions (positive, negative and neutral) within text data using text analysis techniques. Sentiment analysis allows businesses to identify customer sentiment toward products, brands or services in online conversations and feedback. This paper uses sentiment analysis and prediction algorithms to analyze the sentiment of people pre and post release of movie. Large number of people are participating in social media to give their reviews or opinion about various topics. It is very difficult to go through all the views regularly posted for a movie in different social network sites. In this paper we have used Twitter sentiment analysis which is tricky as compared to broad sentiment analysis because of the slang words and misspellings and repeated characters. We know that the maximum length of each tweet in Twitter is 140 characters. So, it is very important to identify correct sentiment of each word. 

In our project we are proposing a model which will be analyzing the tweets and provide the people sentiment & movie rating based on polarity of tweets with respect to latest reviews of upcoming Bollywood movies. With the help of feature vector and classifiers such as Support vector machine, CART and Random Forest, we are correctly classifying these tweets as Movie Rating category i.e. HIT, FLOP, AVERAGE, SUPERHIT or BLOCKBUSTER to give sentiment of each tweet. We have proposed machine learning techniques for the sentiment analysis, emotions of the people with the support of R language, it can be used for predicting the status of the running movies. Sentiment Analysis is the part of Text mining which deals with review to analyze sentiment. In this, tweets are classified for sentiment analysis. Feature selection technique is used for collecting or selecting the most important words from each category in text mining processes. After extracting the feature from movie reviews, we apply some machine learning algorithm to find the sentiment or opinion related to the movie.
 
